Chapter 8: MicroProfile Fault Tolerance (#17)
microprofile/microprofile-tutorial: chatper08/chapter08.adoc

=== Bulkhead

A bulkhead isolates failures in one part of a system from other parts by segregating resources, such as thread pools, connection pools, or memory, among different microservices interactions.

For example, in an e-commerce application, the catalog service can implement bulkheads using separate thread pools or connection pools for different upstream dependencies, such as the product database and the pricing service. If the pricing service becomes slow or unresponsive, its dedicated resources (thread pool or connections) prevent it from consuming all the resources of the catalog service, ensuring that requests to fetch product details from the database continue to work unaffected.

=== Fallback

A fallback provides a default response if an operation fails. It ensures the system continues providing a meaningful response instead of completely failing. For example, if the database fails or becomes slow in the product catalog service, the system can fetch cached product data to continue serving user requests for product listings.

=== Circuit Breaker

> A circuit breaker stops an application from making too many unsuccessful requests to another system. If the number of failures exceeds a threshold, the circuit breaker will "open," causing all subsequent requests to fail immediately. After a configured delay, the circuit breaker will "half-open" and allow limited requests. If those requests succeed, the circuit breaker will "close" and let all requests go through.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A circuit breaker stops an application from making too many unsuccessful requests to another system. If the number of failures exceeds a threshold, the circuit breaker will `open`, causing all subsequent requests to fail immediately. After a configured delay, the circuit breaker will `half open` and allow limited requests. If those requests succeed, the circuit breaker will `close` and let all requests go through.
```

image::../images/figure8-1.png[Figure 8-1: Circuit Breaker states, width=600, align="center"]

> For example, a circuit breaker can be applied to calls to an external inventory service in the Product Catalog Microservice. If the inventory service starts failing or becomes unresponsive, the circuit breaker will "open," preventing repeated requests and reducing load. After a configured delay, the circuit breaker will "half-open" to test the availability of the inventory service with a few requests. If those succeed, the circuit breaker will "close," resuming normal operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a circuit breaker can be applied to calls to an external inventory service in the Product Catalog Microservice. If the inventory service starts failing or becomes unresponsive, the circuit breaker will `open`, preventing repeated requests and reducing load. After a configured delay, the circuit breaker will `half-open` to test the availability of the inventory service with a few requests. If those succeed, the circuit breaker will `close`, resuming normal operations.
```

When applied individually or in combination, these strategies form the foundation of a fault-tolerant microservices architecture. The following sections delve deeper into their implementation and best practices.

== Fault Tolerance API

The Fault Tolerance API equips developers with annotations to enhance the resilience of microservices against failures. It integrates seamlessly with the MicroProfile Config API, enabling the dynamic configuration of fault tolerance behaviors without modifying the application code. This section will explore using the Fault Tolerance API to build a robust, fault-tolerant microservice.

=== Adding Dependency for Fault Tolerance API

To use the Fault Tolerance API in your project, include the following dependency in your `pom.xml` file. Ensure you specify the version (e.g., 4.1.1) compatible with your MicroProfile runtime.

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.eclipse.microprofile.fault-tolerance</groupId>
  <artifactId>microprofile-fault-tolerance-api</artifactId>
  <version>4.1.1</version>
</dependency>
----

The Fault Tolerance API defines a contract for fault tolerance implementations.

== MicroProfile Fault Tolerance Annotations

> The MicroProfile Fault Tolerance Annotations provide a declarative way to implement fault-tolerant behavior in Java methods, allowing developers to handle failures gracefully with minimal code changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MicroProfile Fault Tolerance annotations provide a declarative way to implement fault-tolerant behavior in Java methods, allowing developers to handle failures gracefully with minimal code changes.
```

[source,java]
----
import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Timeout;

public class PaymentService {

    @Timeout(1000)
    public String processPayment(PaymentDetails paymentDetails) {
        // Simulate a long-running process
        try {
            Thread.sleep(1500);
        } catch (InterruptedException e) {
            Thread.currentThread().interrupt();
            throw new RuntimeException("Processing interrupted");
        }
        return "Payment processed successfully.";
    }
}
----

In this example:
- The `@Timeout(1000)` annotation specifies that the `processPayment` method must complete within 1000 milliseconds (1 second).
- If the execution exceeds this time, a `TimeoutException` will be thrown, and the process will terminate.

==== Best Practices for Timeouts

- **Align Timeouts with SLAs:** Ensure timeout values align with service-level agreements and user expectations.
- **Monitor Performance:** Use MicroProfile Metrics to monitor execution times and identify operations requiring optimized timeout values.
- **Combine with Fallbacks:** Always pair timeouts with fallback logic to provide a reliable response in case of delays.

> - **Avoid Overly Short Timeouts:** Overly aggressive timeout settings may cause unnecessary failures, particularly in high-latency environments.

Reviewer: Should add: It is best practice to use Timeout together with @Asynchronous. Please read [this](https://openliberty.io/blog/2020/06/05/asynchronous-programming-microprofile-fault-tolerance-part-2.html) blog for more.

Author: Added a new Best Practice as advised above.

==== Best Practices for Fallbacks

- **Keep Fallbacks Lightweight:** Ensure fallback logic is simple and reliable, avoiding dependencies on other potentially failing services.
- **Provide Meaningful Responses:** The fallback response should maintain a reasonable user experience, even if it cannot replicate full functionality.
- **Monitor Fallback Usage:** Use metrics to track the frequency of fallback execution, which can indicate service health and the need for improvements.
- **Plan for Degraded Functionality:** Ensure the fallback behavior aligns with business priorities and provides the most critical features.

=== Combining Fault Tolerance Strategies

> Combining fault tolerance strategies, such as `@Timeout`, `@Fallback`, `@CircuitBreaker`, and `@Retry`, ensures resilience and efficient resource usage. Externalize configurations with MicroProfile Config for flexibility across environments.

Author: Have added the section on @Asynchronous annotations.

        }
    }
}
----

In this example:
- The method allows up to 5 concurrent invocations (`value = 5`).
- Any additional requests are rejected to prevent overload, ensuring system stability.

===== Thread Pool-Style Bulkhead

The thread-pool-style bulkhead pattern leverages a dedicated thread pool to achieve resource isolation. Incoming requests are placed into a queue when all threads in the pool are in use and executed as threads become available. This design helps manage resource contention effectively.

[source,java]
----
package io.microprofile.tutorial.store.payment.service;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Bulkhead;
import jakarta.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

@ApplicationScoped
public class PaymentService {

    /**
     * Processes payment transactions using an isolated thread pool to ensure
     * stability during high traffic and prevent contention with other operations.
     *
     * The @Bulkhead annotation configures a thread pool with a maximum of
     * 5 concurrent threads and a waiting task queue of size 10.
     *
     * @return A success message indicating the payment status.
     */

>     @Bulkhead(value = 5, waitingTaskQueue = 10)

Reviewer: You need to use `@Asynchronous` annotation to use the Thread Pool style bulkhead

Author: Updated.

= Chapter 8: MicroProfile Fault Tolerance

> In Microservices architecture, an application consists of multiple smaller, autonomous services. It enhances development flexibility, agility, and scalability but introduces new challenges, particularly in ensuring the application's reliability and managing failures. Unlike monolithic applications, where defects are localized, a single failure in one microservice can propagate across the entire application, potentially causing widespread outages. Therefore, fault tolerance is critical for microservices architecture to ensure that failures are seamlessly isolated, managed, and recovered.

Reviewer 2: Some grammar fixes. It is not clear what "It" refers to and readers will assume the most recently mentioned thing, which is "application", which is likely not what you meant.
```suggestion
In a Microservices architecture, an application consists of multiple smaller, autonomous services. This architecture enhances development flexibility, agility, and scalability but introduces new challenges, particularly in ensuring the application's reliability and managing failures. Unlike monolithic applications, where defects are localized, a single failure in one microservice can propagate across the entire application, potentially causing widespread outages. Therefore, fault tolerance is critical in a microservices architecture to ensure that failures are seamlessly isolated, managed, and recovered.
```

*MicroProfile Fault Tolerance* offers strategies for building resilient and reliable microservices, ensuring service continuity and stability even during unexpected failures.

> This chapter explains how to enhance your microservices' resilience and reliability using MicroProfile Fault Tolerance capabilities, detailing its annotations. We will also demonstrate how to implement key strategies such as timeouts, retries, fallbacks, circuit breakers, and bulkheads to handle faults. By the end of the chapter, you will understand how to use these strategies to enhance the resilience of your microservices.

Reviewer 2: Confusing what "its" refers to here
```suggestion
This chapter explains how to enhance your microservices' resilience and reliability using MicroProfile Fault Tolerance capabilities and annotations. We will also demonstrate how to implement key strategies such as timeouts, retries, fallbacks, circuit breakers, and bulkheads to handle faults. By the end of the chapter, you will understand how to use these strategies to enhance the resilience of your microservices.
```

== Key Strategies for Enhancing Fault Tolerance

Some of the key strategies for enhancing the fault tolerance of a microservices-based application include:

=== Timeout

A timeout sets a time limit for operations, preventing indefinite waits and freeing up system resources for other tasks. For instance, a timeout in payment service ensures that the application can recover gracefully if the payment processing is taking too long to respond.

=== Retry

A retry allows the system to automatically retry failed operations, particularly useful for handling transient errors like temporary network glitches. You can customize the retry policy with parameters such as the delay between retries and maximum retries. Adding jitter prevents synchronized retries across services.

For example, a payment service can retry a failed payment authorization request with an external payment gateway to ensure successful transaction processing.

=== Bulkhead

A bulkhead isolates failures in one part of a system from other parts by segregating resources, such as thread pools, connection pools, or memory, among different microservices interactions.

> For example, in an e-commerce application, the catalog service can implement bulkheads using separate thread pools or connection pools for different upstream dependencies, such as the product database and the pricing service. If the pricing service becomes slow or unresponsive, its dedicated resources (thread pool or connections) prevent it from consuming all the resources of the catalog service, ensuring that requests to fetch product details from the database continue to work unaffected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, in an e-commerce application, the catalog service can implement bulkheads using separate thread pools or connection pools for different upstream dependencies, such as the product database and the pricing service. If the pricing service becomes slow or unresponsive, a bulkhead prevents it from consuming all the resources of the catalog service, ensuring that requests to fetch product details from the database continue to work unaffected.
```

    )
    public Response processPayment(PaymentDetails paymentDetails) throws PaymentProcessingException {
        System.out.println("Processing payment for amount: " + paymentDetails.getAmount());

        // Simulating a transient failure
        if (Math.random() > 0.7) {
            throw new PaymentProcessingException("Temporary payment processing failure");
        }

        return Response.ok("{\"status\":\"success\"}", MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON).build();
    }
}
----

[source,java]
----

class PaymentDetails {
    private double amount;

    public double getAmount() {
        return amount;
    }

    public void setAmount(double amount) {
        this.amount = amount;
    }
}
----

[source,java]
----

package io.microprofile.tutorial.store.payment.exception;

public class PaymentProcessingException extends Exception {
   public PaymentProcessingException(String message) {
       super(message);
   }
}

----

[source,java]
----
package io.microprofile.tutorial.store.payment.exception;

class CriticalPaymentException extends Exception {
    public CriticalPaymentException(String message) {
        super(message);
    }
}
----

> In this example, the `processPayment` method attempts to process a payment. If a transient failure occurs (e.g., `PaymentProcessingException`), the method retries up to three times (`maxRetries = 3`), there is a delay of 2000 milliseconds between retries (`delay = 2000`), with a random variation of up to 500 milliseconds is added to the delay (`jitter  = 500`) to avoid synchronized retries (e.g. thundering herd problem). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the `processPayment` method attempts to process a payment. If a transient failure occurs (e.g., `PaymentProcessingException`), the method retries up to three times (`maxRetries = 3`), and there is a delay of 2000 milliseconds between retries (`delay = 2000`), with a random variation of up to 500 milliseconds added to the delay (`jitter  = 500`) to avoid synchronized retries (e.g. thundering herd problem). 
```

==== Why Use Timeouts?

In distributed systems, slow responses from downstream services can cascade through the system, leading to resource contention and degraded performance. Timeouts allow you to:
- Abort operations that exceed acceptable time limits.
- Free system resources for other operations.
- Trigger alternative strategies, such as fallbacks, to maintain functionality.

[source,java]
----
import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Timeout;

public class PaymentService {

    @Timeout(1000)
    public String processPayment(PaymentDetails paymentDetails) {
        // Simulate a long-running process
        try {
            Thread.sleep(1500);
        } catch (InterruptedException e) {
            Thread.currentThread().interrupt();
            throw new RuntimeException("Processing interrupted");
        }
        return "Payment processed successfully.";
    }
}
----

In this example:
- The `@Timeout(1000)` annotation specifies that the `processPayment` method must complete within 1000 milliseconds (1 second).

> - If the execution exceeds this time, a `TimeoutException` will be thrown, and the process will terminate.

Reviewer 2: Can it really guarantee this?  Or is it subject to the process being interruptible?  If the latter, the wording should be softened to reflect that. For example,

```suggestion
- If the execution exceeds this time, an attempt is made to interrupt the process, and a `TimeoutException` will be thrown when the process terminates.
```

==== Best Practices for Fallbacks

- **Keep Fallbacks Lightweight:** Ensure fallback logic is simple and reliable, avoiding dependencies on other potentially failing services.
- **Provide Meaningful Responses:** The fallback response should maintain a reasonable user experience, even if it cannot replicate full functionality.
- **Monitor Fallback Usage:** Use metrics to track the frequency of fallback execution, which can indicate service health and the need for improvements.
- **Plan for Degraded Functionality:** Ensure the fallback behavior aligns with business priorities and provides the most critical features.

=== Using `@Asynchronous` Annotation

The *`@Asynchronous`* annotation in MicroProfile Fault Tolerance is used to enable asynchronous execution of methods. It allows operations to run in a separate thread, freeing up the main thread for other tasks. This approach enhances the application's responsiveness and scalability, particularly in high-concurrency or latency-sensitive scenarios.

==== Why Use `@Asynchronous`?

1. *Improved Responsiveness*: The caller does not need to wait for the method execution to complete, allowing the application to remain interactive.

> 2. *Non-Blocking Execution*: Long-running operations are offloaded to a separate thread pool, preventing bottlenecks in the primary thread pool.

Reviewer 2: The use of different thread pools sounds like an implementation detail. If the spec doesn't require it, we should not state it that way
```suggestion
2. *Non-Blocking Execution*: Long-running operations are offloaded to a separate thread, preventing bottlenecks.
```

3. *Scalability*: By decoupling method execution from the calling thread, you can handle higher loads without increasing thread contention.

==== Implementation

Below is an example of using the *`@Asynchronous`* annotation with MicroProfile Fault Tolerance:

[source,java]
----
package io.microprofile.tutorial.store.payment.service;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Bulkhead;
import jakarta.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

> import jakarta.ejb.Asynchronous;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Asynchronous;
```

==== Why Resource Isolation Matters

In a distributed system, shared resources like thread pools, database connections, and network bandwidth can quickly become bottlenecks if not adequately managed. Resource isolation ensures:
- Failures in one service do not deplete resources for other services.
- Critical operations remain functional even under load or failure conditions.
- Better predictability and control over system behavior.

==== Using Bulkheads to Isolate Resources

Bulkheads are a common pattern for isolating resources by dividing a system into separate pools or partitions. This ensures that a failure in one area does not impact others. The MicroProfile Fault Tolerance standard provides the `@Bulkhead` annotation to implement this pattern.

==== Bulkhead Types

MicroProfile supports two types of bulkheads:
- **Semaphore-Style Bulkhead:** Limits the number of concurrent requests.

> - **Thread Pool-Style Bulkhead:** Uses a dedicated thread pool to isolate operations.

Reviewer 2: I don't think the spec requires a dedicated thread pool for the bulkhead,

```suggestion
- **Thread Pool-Style Bulkhead:** Runs a maximum number of requests on a thread pool to isolate operations.
```

===== Semaphore-Style Bulkhead

The semaphore-style bulkhead pattern limits the number of concurrent requests that can be processed by a service or method at any given time. Any additional requests are immediately rejected when the specified concurrency limit is reached. This approach prevents resource contention and protects the system from being overwhelmed during high traffic or failure scenarios.

[source,java]
----
package io.microprofile.tutorial.store.payment.service;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Bulkhead;
import jakarta.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

> import jakarta.ejb.Asynchronous;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Asynchronous;
```

    /**
     * Processes payment transactions with limited concurrency to prevent
     * system overload and ensure stability during high traffic.
     *
     * The @Bulkhead annotation ensures that only a limited number of
     * concurrent requests (5 in this case) can access this method.
     * The @Asynchronous annotation enables the use of the thread pool
     * style bulkhead for non-blocking execution.
     *
     * @return A success message indicating the processing status.
     */
    @Asynchronous
    @Bulkhead(value = 5)
    public String processPayment() {
        simulateDelay();
        return "Payment processed with limited concurrency.";
    }

    private void simulateDelay() {
        try {
            Thread.sleep(1000); // Simulating a delay
        } catch (InterruptedException e) {
            Thread.currentThread().interrupt();
            throw new RuntimeException("Error during payment processing simulation", e);
        }
    }
}
----

In this example:
- The method allows up to 5 concurrent invocations (`value = 5`).
- Any additional requests are rejected to prevent overload, ensuring system stability.

===== Thread Pool-Style Bulkhead

> The thread-pool-style bulkhead pattern leverages a dedicated thread pool to achieve resource isolation. Incoming requests are placed into a queue when all threads in the pool are in use and executed as threads become available. This design helps manage resource contention effectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The thread-pool-style bulkhead pattern leverages a thread pool to achieve resource isolation. Incoming requests are placed into a queue when the maximum allowed number of threads are in use. Queued requests are executed as threads become available. This design helps manage resource contention effectively.
```

[source,java]
----
package io.microprofile.tutorial.store.payment.service;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Bulkhead;
import jakarta.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

> import jakarta.ejb.Asynchronous;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Asynchronous;
```

@ApplicationScoped
public class PaymentService {

    /**
     * Processes payment transactions with limited concurrency using a thread pool
     * to prevent system overload and ensure stability during high traffic.
     *
     * The @Bulkhead annotation ensures that only a limited number of concurrent
     * requests (5 in this case) can access this method, and the @Asynchronous
     * annotation allows the use of the thread pool style bulkhead.
     *
     * @return A success message indicating the processing status.
     */
    @Asynchronous
    @Bulkhead(value = 5)
    public void processPayment() {
        simulateDelay();
        System.out.println("Payment processed with limited concurrency.");
    }

    private void simulateDelay() {
        try {
            Thread.sleep(1000); // Simulating a delay
        } catch (InterruptedException e) {
            Thread.currentThread().interrupt();
            throw new RuntimeException("Error during payment processing simulation", e);
        }
    }
}

----

In this example:

> - The method uses a thread pool with up to 5 concurrent threads (`value = 5`) and a queue of up to 10 tasks (`waitingTaskQueue = 10`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The method uses up to 5 concurrent threads (`value = 5`) from a thread pool and a queue of up to 10 tasks (`waitingTaskQueue = 10`).
```

== MicroProfile Fault Tolerance Annotations

The MicroProfile Fault Tolerance annotations provide a declarative way to implement fault-tolerant behavior in Java methods, allowing developers to handle failures gracefully with minimal code changes.

=== List of Annotations

|=== 
| Annotation | Description 
| `@Retry` | Specifies that the annotated method should automatically retry on failure. Parameters such as `maxRetries`, `delay`, `maxDuration`, and `jitter` control retry behavior. Configurations can be externalized using MicroProfile Config.
| `@Timeout` | Specifies the maximum duration (in milliseconds) the method can execute before being aborted. If the timeout is exceeded, a `FaultToleranceException` is thrown. 
| `@CircuitBreaker` | Defines a circuit breaker mechanism to prevent repeated calls to a failing method. Includes parameters like `failureRatio`, `delay`, and `requestVolumeThreshold`.
| `@Fallback` | Specifies alternative logic to execute when the primary method fails. This ensures meaningful responses and graceful degradation.
| `@Bulkhead` | Limits the number of concurrent method executions to isolate system resources and prevent cascading failures.

> |===

Reviewer: Need to add Asynchronous annotation

- Abort operations that exceed acceptable time limits.
- Free system resources for other operations.
- Trigger alternative strategies, such as fallbacks, to maintain functionality.

[source,java]
----
import org.eclipse.microprofile.faulttolerance.Timeout;

public class PaymentService {

    @Timeout(1000)
    public Response processPayment(PaymentDetails paymentDetails) throws PaymentProcessingException{
   	
        // Simulate a long-running process
        try {
            Thread.sleep(1500);
        } catch (InterruptedException e) {
            Thread.currentThread().interrupt();
            throw new RuntimeException("Processing interrupted");
        }
        System.out.println("Processing payment for amount: " + paymentDetails.getAmount());

        // Simulating a transient failure
        if (Math.random() > 0.7) {
            throw new PaymentProcessingException("Temporary payment processing failure");
        }

        // response for successful payment processing
        String result = "{\"status\":\"success\", \"message\":\"Payment processed successfully.\"}";
        return Response.ok(result, MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON).build();
    }
}
----

> In this example, the `@Timeout(1000)` annotation specifies that the `processPayment` method must complete within 1000 milliseconds (1 second). If the execution exceeds this time, a `TimeoutException` will be thrown, and the process will terminate.

Author: Updated

import io.microprofile.tutorial.store.product.cache.ProductCache;
import io.microprofile.tutorial.store.product.entity.Product;

@RequestScoped
public class ProductService {

    @Inject
    private ProductRepository productRepository; // Access to the database

    @Inject
    private ProductCache productCache; // Cache mechanism

    /**
     * Retrieves a list of products. If the operation takes longer than 2 seconds,
     * fallback to cached data.
     */
    @Timeout(2000) // Set timeout to 2 seconds
    @Fallback(fallbackMethod = "getProductsFromCache") // Fallback method
    public List<Product> getProducts() {
        if (Math.random() > 0.7) {
            throw new RuntimeException("Simulated service failure");
        }
        // database call
        return productRepository.findAllProducts();
    }

    /**
     * Fallback method to retrieve products from the cache.
     */
    public List<Product> getProductsFromCache() {
        System.out.println("Fetching products from cache...");
        return productCache.getAll().stream()
                .map(obj -> (Product) obj)
                .collect(Collectors.toList());
    }
}
----

> This example demonstrates the use of MicroProfile Fault Tolerance annotations `@Timeout` and `@Fallback` to enhance the resilience of a ProductService. The `@Timeout` annotation ensures that the `getProducts()` method, which fetches product data from a database, completes within a specified duration (2 seconds in this case). If the method exceeds this time or an exception occurs, the `@Fallback` annotation directs the application to invoke the `getProductsFromCache()` method, which retrieves data from a cache. This approach ensures consistent service availability and a seamless user experience, even during database delays or failures​.

Reviewer: Please also explain the calling sequence. Please add this blog somewhere in this chapter to demonstrate the usage of Asynchronous and also some invocation sequence was explained:
https://openliberty.io/blog/2020/06/04/asynchronous-programming-microprofile-fault-tolerance.html
https://openliberty.io/blog/2020/06/05/asynchronous-programming-microprofile-fault-tolerance-part-2.html

==== Best Practices for Fallbacks

- **Keep Fallbacks Lightweight:** Ensure fallback logic is simple and reliable, avoiding dependencies on other potentially failing services.
- **Provide Meaningful Responses:** The fallback response should maintain a reasonable user experience, even if it cannot replicate full functionality.
- **Monitor Fallback Usage:** Use metrics to track the frequency of fallback execution, which can indicate service health and the need for improvements.
- **Plan for Degraded Functionality:** Ensure the fallback behavior aligns with business priorities and provides the most critical features.

=== Using `@Asynchronous` Annotation

> The *`@Asynchronous`* annotation in MicroProfile Fault Tolerance is used to enable asynchronous execution of methods. It allows operations to run in a separate thread, freeing up the main thread for other tasks. This approach enhances the application's responsiveness and scalability, particularly in high-concurrency or latency-sensitive scenarios.

Reviewer: It should be used when you specify `@Timeout`.

public class PaymentService {

    /**
     * Processes payments asynchronously
     *
     * @return A CompletableFuture with the result of the operation.
     */
    @Asynchronous
    public CompletableFuture<String> processPayment() {
        simulateDelay();
        return CompletableFuture.completedFuture("Payment processed asynchronously.");
    }

    private void simulateDelay() {
        try {
            Thread.sleep(2000); // Simulating delay
        } catch (InterruptedException e) {
            Thread.currentThread().interrupt();
            throw new RuntimeException("Error during simulated delay", e);
        }
    }
}
----

==== Externalizing Timeout Configuration

Timeout values can be externalized using the MicroProfile Config API, allowing flexibility to adjust values without modifying code. Here’s how:
1. Define the @Timeout annotation without specifying the value:

[source, java]
----
@Timeout
public String fetchData() {
    // Logic
}
----

2. Configure the timeout in *microprofile-config.properties*:

[source]
----
io.microprofile.tutorial.store.payment.service.ProductService/fetchData/Timeout/value=1500
----

==== Best Practices for Using @Asynchronous

> - *Use CompletableFuture or Future*: Return types like `CompletableFuture` allow asynchronous methods to integrate seamlessly with other asynchronous workflows.

Reviewer: You should say CompletionStage, which is best practices. Please also update CompletableFuture to CompletionStage in your coding

Author: Fixed.
